# Assignment 1

Answer the following questions:

1. What are primary and foreign keys? Explain in detail. What are the implications
   of using these keys in different tables?

2. What is data dictionary? What is it used for?

3. What is the significance of creating a column in a table? What is the
   significance of a row in a table?

4. What is referential integrity and how is it used in relational databases for
   adding, removing and updating rows?

### My responses

1. .
   1. Primary keys are what's used to identify a row in a table.
      They have to be unique otherwise the same key might refer to two rows.
      In that sense, for every primary key possible, there is at most one
      corresponding row in the table.
   2. Foreign keys, besides being hard to remember the spelling of, are used when
      you want one row of your table to refer to another row.
      It protects the referred to row from changing the primary key and prevents
      the row from being deleted. Can nearly think of it as a file handle or strong pointer.

2. The Data Dictionary is like a meta table. It's tables about the database.
   You can use it to query like the different tables in a database which is really
   nice. You can't really do that with sqlite. When you `create` or `alter` a table,
   the database accesses or changes the Data Dictionary.

3. Creating a column in a table is just adding another piece of data that is
   associated with the entities in the table. Creating another row in the table
   is just adding another entity into the table.

4. Referential integrity is a constraint that is used to make sure that rows of
   data can refer to other rows safely. When adding rows, the database will check
   that the foreign key exists so that the row does refer to another row in the database.
   When deleting rows in the parent table (the one that is being referred to), the database
   will refuse to delete the row if there is something pointing to it. This basically
   stops you from pointing at something that doesn't exist. Updating rows is the same thing
   unless you change the action.

