# Assignment 2

## Provision

Before attempting this assignment please setup your database for the entire course.

Run the following [script](../resources/initializescript.sql) to setup the database.

If the results show successful (no errors) then your database is setup.

If you have errors, then try to rerun the script as explained above or reach out to instructor for help.

## Assignment

Write queries for the following questions.

1. 
   1. Write a simple query to display the name, job, hire date and employee
      number of each employee from the emp table.
   2. Now, display all employees in the emp table including all columns.
   3. Now rewrite the query to display names of all employees, making sure that
      two employees with same name don't appear twice in the result set.

2. Write a query to add a record to the emp table:
   `EMPNO: 1456  ENAME: John Smith  JOB: Analyst  SAL: 2000  HIREDATE: 1/1/02  COMM:  DEPTNO: 20  MGR: 7566`

3. Show how will you modify the above record to reflect SAL = 3000

4. 
   1. Write a SQL statement to show the employee number, employee name, hiredate
      of employees where name has 2 L's.
   2. Now from the above result set, display the same fields, for employees
      whose names end with "N".

5. Display all the fields of dept table, where location is BOSTON.

6. Display employee number, employee name, department number, job for an
   employee who is not a manager and is not a clerk in department number 10.

7. Display all employees whose commission is greater than zero and salary is
   between 1000 and 3000.

8. 
   1. Write a SQL statement to show employees, who don't have any managers.
   2. Write a SQL statement to display employee number, employee name, salary,
      manager for all employees, whose managers have employee numbers 7566, 7788

To submit, simply create a text file with SQL statement and sample test run and
submit using instructions in the syllabus.
